## My final project for COMM318 _Stories from Data_ (Fall2020)

**How have consumer preferences changed since the Covid-19 pandemic? 

* In this project, I am striving to answer this question and understand in what ways consumer preferences have changed. Due to the lockdowns and restrictions put in place from Covid-19, many consumers have been spending differently. They are decreasing overall spending in non-essential items, increasing their online spending, and are not resuming to their normal pre-pandemic activities. I make use Google Trends and Yahoo Finance to get data as to which services and products have gained more and less popularity since the pandemic started, and draw overall conclusions about the shift in consumer behavior and preferences. 

* I chose this topic because I found it interesting and relevant. I believe it is important to understand how consumerism is changing due to Covid because it is something that we all participate in and allows us to understand what businesses, goods, and services really are important. Growing up, and now, I have always had an entrepreneurial spirit and being able to understand consumer behavior and preferences is the key to coming up with strong business ideas and innovations. There is a decent amount of research on this topic already but there was little data that was widely accessible so I felt this was a good way to come up with conclusions from data that everyone has access to (Google Trends and Yahoo Finance). 

* In the data notebook, I have 2 folders, one with Google Trends data and one with Yahoo Finance data. I tried to get as much data as I could to fully comprehend how consumers are behaving. In the data analysis notebook, I analyzed this data and made it into charts and graphs. I made observations about the data along the way and separated the analysis into 4 parts. The first was about goods and services increasing in popularity (using Google Trends), the second was about goods and services decreasing in popularity (using Google Trends), the third had various comparisons of similar services (using Google Trends), and the fourth was stock market data (using Yahoo Finance). I then combined this analysis and took a step back to come up with overall shifts I observed and used this for my data story presentation. I made a Prezi presentation in a video form to explain the data in a coherent way with graphs as visualizations. I learned a lot and had a fun time doing this, so I hope you also enjoy! 

 